# Tokenomics
Let's say god has given us a life to commit mistakes, change it and upgrade us to become best version of our self. We commit mistake, learn from mistakes and upgrade us. Let's say we want to grow fast and in the journey, we commit 1000s of mistakes and eventually learn from too many, now we realise that now we know 1000s of things from those mistakes that we should not repeat in future but there are so many, so how can we manage to keep in mind all those fresh upgrades, maybe we commit those mistakes twice. When I was doing my internship at Maruti Suzuki India Limited, my senior at company was teaching me about ITIL where he was making us realise the worth of ticketing system used in companies. The ticket are the events which we track in real time using kafka and much more event streaming bus but what about transactions, let's say our life is a playing and experimental ground but company isn't. So, user onboarding and many such things are just playing ground and so is event streaming through kafka but transaction isn't, it needs to be secured and to be handled carefully and efficiently, we are committing the things, implementing retry logics, trying two phase commit, then upgrade to TC/C and then to orchestration workflows like saga patterns, but that would still be too unclear and inefficient while fetching, so we keep a new fresh table for syncing fresh entries to that table which is read table and we just fetch the records using query, so one is playing ground for all logics, commits, rollbacks and transactions management and orchestration while other is for showing over display and UI to users and query the outcomes, so we keep it separate, also the fetching of transactions would be efficient then. Now, we will have a whole file management where we keeps track of all events being occured from all DBs in the form of files and a rockDB whose snapshots are being stored in a separate file or S3 storage.

Now, comes the raft algorithm, which is the ultimate point where our transactions becomes a politician, like too many raft nodes are being built around a master node which is a leader node performing commands where that node is connected and synced to various follower nodes known as raft nodes using raft algorithm and each one of them votes for the command being executed to push to final DB if majority wins, so here also democracy comes in. Now, in tokenomics, this is the most relevant part, where there are multiple ways of stakeholders to participate in voting and rights given to all are totally different, for eg, we have a founder, or a team of founders, then developers team who participate in building this model, then comes the people who have stake in it, then angel investors come in and then open source contributors for that project. Resource allocation is being done by the company on the basis of weightage of the amount of work being done by the whole set of people contributing to it and so does the voting rights. Sometimes, a team gets elected by the people having stakes in it and open source contributors which further elects the candidate responsible for performing the further tasks and this is also known as consensus mechanism. From my point of view, people and open source contributors should have the least voting rights and stake allocation because in production, when system goes down or code breaks, the internal team is responsible for fixing it immediately. Angel investors can explicitly participate with a golden token to share their point of view and even change the discussion point due to their equity in that work.

It is not just software engineering, but finance+politics too which really excites me and create a level of curiosity in my mind that how well every system is being built and finance is not only limited to this part but also the game theory based predictions for enabling players to participate in stake related games which is too much used in AI nowadays inside adversial learning models, like minimax algorithm, alpha beta pruning, prisoner's dilemma, etc. and I actually do it for fun.
